At John 1520, Jesus said, Aslave is not greater than His Master.
If they have persecuted Me, they will also persecute You.
How will we react when we are mistreated?
How will we find the strength to endure?
We have a record of faithful servants of old.
We know that Jehovah's people can endure.
But we also have the record of Jehovah's Witnesses in modern times.
The following video draws on footage from two previously released videos by the organization.
It highlights two outstanding examples.
Our brothers in Germany during World War II and our brothers in the former Soviet Union
in the years that followed the war.
It also reveals the tactics that enemies of the truth consistently use to no avail against Jehovah's people.
Reviewing and meditating on the examples of these faithful brothers and sisters
will prepare us for what lies ahead,
will fill us with courage and will strengthen our faith.
On January 30, 1933, Adolf Hitler comes to power.
Hitler gave the people jobs.
He restored their faith in the Fatherland.
He has hailed as their Savior.
But the witnesses could not give to a man what they believed belonged to God.
Thus, the battle line was drawn over a simple greeting.
Heil Hitler.
Jehovah's Witnesses refused to say a Heil Hitler because it meant salvation comes from Hitler.
At his job in a steel mill, one witness faced this test.
I was the only one among 2000 who did not raise my hand and did not return the German salute.
Every day running the gauntlet since I was required to give the German salute and I simply said,
good day.
Children were drawn into the battle.
Six-year-old Paul Gerhard Kusaro, like other witness children,
was pressured by students and teachers.
As soon as I entered school, the head teacher and the pupils confronted me
and tried to make me say Heil Hitler.
More than 800 children were taken away from their witness parents by the Gestapo.
In one German state after another,
the police shut down meetings of the witnesses and prohibit their door-to-door preaching.
At first, there were nasty words, sometimes a beating.
But soon enough, it led to the first arrests.
Starting in 1937, Jehovah's Witnesses were given a purple triangle as a sign.
Jehovah's Witnesses were the only religious group that made up a separate category of inmates.
The Jehovah's Witnesses received especially severe treatment.
The goal was to destroy this religious group.
There were to be no more witnesses in Germany.
The Nazis obsessed with breaking the Witnesses' tabern commitment
and made them an extraordinary offer.
Each witness could buy his freedom for a price,
his signature and his faith.
Witnesses and prisons and camps were repeatedly handed a piece of paper on a pen.
Very few signed.
When I was to be released from prison, I was given a paper to sign.
It required that I give up my faith
and recognize the German government as the highest authority,
place myself under the Hitler government
and consider the Bible as a false doctrine.
I said, that's out of the question.
The unity among the sisters and the brothers
that gave us so much strength.
It was our aim to endure under all circumstances.
We never prayed to be set free.
We prayed for strength to endure.
Everything else was unimportant.
What mattered was standing up for Jehovah's Name.
On February 19, 1951, the head of the security police presented a secret plan to Stalin.
All of Jehovah's Witnesses, including infants and pregnant women, would be exiled.
The plan was codenamed Operation North.
Stalin approved it.
Interestingly, the witnesses were offered a way to avoid deportation.
The manning charge of the deportation
of our family tried to persuade father to sign a paper,
renouncing the organization of Jehovah's Witnesses.
Few witnesses, if any, accepted this offer.
Once in Siberia, the witnesses were dropped off at settlements along the rail lines.
The majority of the witnesses were forced to cut trees.
We recalled the time when the Israelites lived in Egypt
and how they were forced to work.
We prayed, God, make our faith stronger,
so that this work, which is beyond our strength, will not shake us.
Stalin's death in 1953 brought hope of relief.
That relief would be a long time in coming.
The Neurigin went on in the same course, they arrested and sentenced us.
Most arrested witnesses were sentenced to labor camps.
In court, they could not expect a fair trial.
Guilty verdicts had already been decided upon.
Under the crush of administration special re-education camps were set up,
designed to turn inmates from their beliefs.
During this period, propaganda films designed to discredit Jehovah's Witnesses
were distributed throughout the USSR.
Whoever has studied persecution on the past
has seen that in one way or another,
persecution is always built on a lie.
The victim is slandered.
Besides using propaganda, for many years,
the KGB recruited informers to infiltrate witness congregations.
For instance, in 1968, the KGB District Director offered Nikolai Bytkov an assignment.
He requested me to spy on Jehovah's Witnesses.
One witness booklet that compared the teaching of evolution with the Bible
changed the KGB Informer's viewpoint.
No one could answer that question.
How life appeared.
In the Bible, I could find answers to those questions.
In Kbarovsk in 1984, Nikolai Bytkov now abaptized witness
and several fellow believers were accused of anti-Soviet activities.
But the all-out attack on the witness's faith backfired on the persecutors.
In Germany and in Soviet times,
they thought that you could get rid of an idea by using extreme violence.
But it turned out that when an idea is strong, it makes people strong.
So the outcome was just the opposite of what was expected.
In March 1991, Jehovah's Witnesses were legally registered in Russia.
I think it is frightening, only if you've never faced difficulties.
But once you face them, you know that special strength.
When we rely on Jehovah, we ask for his guidance, we ask for his help, we will always get it.
In addition to horrible physical treatment,
God's people faced slander, outright lies and fabrications, even in the form of propaganda films,
opposes attempted to infiltrate our brotherhood with informants.
But as we saw in the example of Nikolai Bytkov, such devious plans are in vain when
pitted against the truth from God's word.
As Professor Nikolai Gjenko noted, when an idea is strong, it makes people strong.
What idea can be stronger than the reality of our father, Jehovah,
his reigning King Jesus Christ and his kingdom now poised to thwart all opposition.
And so, what people can possibly be stronger than Jehovah's people.
As our brothers in Russia and other areas of the earth face renewed opposition,
and as we all face the prospect of being mistreated, just as our Master Jesus was,
we are determined to stand firm and remain faithful no matter what the enemies of truth attempt.